we begin in the Middle East where
pressure is growing on Israel to let
more Aid into Gaza Washington is urging
Israel to do more to provide sustained
humanitarian access officials say
they're deeply concerned about reports
of imminent famine they've called for
the Raffa Crossing to be reopened as
soon as possible Egypt stopped allowing
in supplies after Israel seized control
of the Gaza side the two countries have
blamed each other for its continued
closure speaking at a news conference
the White House Press Secretary Karen G
Pierre said more needed to be done so
this level of Aid remains insufficient
and we want to continue to press uh
Israel to increase the level of
assistant moving into
Gaza we understand what I just laid out
is not sufficient we want to get more in
We are continuing to have those
conversation with Israel and we have
seen some progress we need to get more
in the US concern over the amount of Aid
getting into The Enclave has been echoed
by the UN their aid Chief War that
famine is now an immediate threat and
that un staff were struggling to help
people displaced by the Israeli
offensive in Rafa the facts on the
ground tell us we don't need to be
scientists to see the the consequence of
of the removal of food and you know also
for famine particularly the removal of
medical care and nutritional care which
is the the precursor to you know famine
kills through disease um as well as
hunger the Israeli Prime Minister has
doubled down on the importance of a
military campaign in Rafa Benjamin
Netanyahu was shown flying over the Gaza
Strip with Military Officers his
comments come after a very public spat
with his defense minister yoav Gallant
over the future of Gaza he was speaking
during a visit to soldiers at a military
base the battle for Rafa is critical
it's not just the rest of their
battalions it's also their oxygen pipes
for escape and resupply this battle of
which you are an integral part is a
battle that decides many things in this
campaign I repeat we are in a critical
battle now your action helps to end it
we can speak now to our correspondent
Dan Johnson who's in Jerusalem and we
say the pressure is mounting John Dan
just tell us what um the US has been
saying yeah the US is calling for the
land borders into Gaza to be reopened to
ease access for Aid particularly for
food and for fuel there is some positive
news in that the uh emergency temporary
floating dock that has been constructed
by the US military will soon be ready to
accept Aid via the sea and there are
already deliveries sailing from Cyprus
towards Gaza but the message is that
that shouldn't be relied upon solely to
deliver Aid to Gaza now that the most
important and effective routs are the
land Crossings to all allow trucks
through to deliver food and to bring
fuel so that that food can be
effectively appropriately distributed
throughout Gaza to the Palestinian
refugees who need it and the warning
from the UN is that 2.4 million refugees
are now on the brink of impending famine
if more food doesn't get through and
can't be distributed uh effectively so
that is the call for Israel to reopen
particularly the Rafa Crossing but that
of course has been difficult because of
the intensification of Israeli military
operations in that area over the last
week or more now and what about today
then we've got Israel making its case at
the icj responding to these accusations
from South Africa what can we expect
today yes this is a further stage in
South Africa's submissions to the
international court of justice uh
calling effectively for a halt to the
Israeli military operations uh in Rafa
the earlier case that started at the
beginning of the year accused Israel of
genocide and that wider case is still
going on but South Africa's been able to
bring an emergency motion uh calling for
the uh the operation the military
conduct around Rafa to be suspended
because of the impact that that is
having on Palestinian refugees hundreds
of thousands who've been uprooted in the
last week or 10 days by the military
operation there and these were people in
the main who had already been forced
from their homes earlier in this
conflict people who'd moved to Rafa in
in seek of shelter and safety and they
are people who are now on the move again
and are wondering where is safe where
they will be able to find shelter and
food because of the desperate situation
and the lack of safe options Israel will
make its submissions in defense of its
case to the icj later this morning okay
well thanks very much for now that's Dan
Johnson reporting to us live from
Jerusalem and we will of course keep
right across what's going on at the icj
uh later today and bring it to you here
on BBC News